---
layout: post
title:      "Rails Project gone wild!"
date:       2020-03-22 23:47:50 +0000
permalink:  rails_project_gone_wild
---

I initially was a bit overwhelmed with Rails or frameworks in general due to Sinatra being so gritty and lightweight in terms of how much you have to define and create to get the general structure going. But as I went through the lessons and went in depth with understanding our generators and rails works. I quickly learned that rails is a very intuitive framework which has alot more knowledge and flexibility thatn Sinatra. I also understood why we would learn and create something first on Sinatra and then on Rails simply due to how much heavy lifting Rails can do that make fly completely over your head if you don't understand the underlying concepts of what is driving the vehicle known as Rails to its destination. I mainly started to adore the capability of what I could create and start working on right out of a couple of terminal commands. The ability to create associations and resources as well as routes for the controller to use all in  1 or 2 chained terminal commands is great. I also see now as I am becoming more acquainted with these different frameworks and concepts what exactly a Full Stack is from a development perspective and how many moving parts a simple site or application can and does have under the hood. In the beginning with the CLI project I was generally a bit nervous when I saw or experienced some problems during development but now that I have about half way through the course as a whole. I've come to realize that every developer junior or senior will have these issues but having the ability to communicate with your team or being able to simply test  and work with the results till you can fix the issue at hand is really what development as a whole teaches you. The tools available to me are phenomenal I actually enjoy visiting Stack Overflow and going through posts just to see that everyone at some point asked the same questions I do or simply viewed the problem from the same perspective as me.  My perspective has changed since enrolling having issues now no longer evoke a sense of fear of the unknown but moreso question why the error occured or why the feature I've been working on worked with a simple snippet of code that I believed should not have fixed the issue did the trick. I am eager to continue down this road and learn and see the many different ways and solutions people have come with for the very things I have already done with new technologies.
